1
Survival in adults and children with systemic lupus erythematosus: a systemati
review and Bayesian meta-analysis of studies from 1950 to 2016

2
Effect of Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors on Heart Failure: A Networ
Meta-Analysis

3
Anti-fibrotic, anti-VEGF or radiotherapy treatments as adjuvants for pterygiu
excision: a systematic review and network meta-analysis

4
Comparative assessment of the efficacy of onabotulinumtoxinA and oral therapie
(anticholinergics and mirabegron) for overactive bladder: a systematic review an
network meta-analysis

5
Pharmacological treatments in asthma-affected horses: A pair-wise and networ
meta-analysis

6
The role of splenic angioembolization as an adjunct to nonoperative management o
blunt splenic injuries: A systematic review and meta-analysis

7
Effectiveness of bariatric surgical procedures: A systematic review and networ
meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials

8
Pregnancy, thrombophilia, and the risk of a first venous thrombosis: systemati
review and bayesian meta-analysis

9
Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have complete
the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf (available
on request from the corresponding author) and declare: no support from an
organisation for the submitted work; no financial relationships with an
organisation that might have an interest in the submitted work in the previou
three years. MJHAK received research funding from Ferring Pharmaceuticals
Pfizer, Daiichi Sankyo, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bayer Nederland, and Pfize
Nederland. KM received research support from Bayer, Baxter, Sanquin, and Pfizer;
speaker fees from Bayer, Sanquin, Boehringer Ingelheim, and Bristol-Myers Squibb
and consulting fees from Uniqure. FWGL received consulting fees from Uniqure
Shire, and Novonordisk (fees go to the institution); unrestricted research grant
from CSL Behring and Baxalta (Shire); and travel support from Roche

10
Antithrombotic therapy strategies for atrial fibrillation patients undergoin
percutaneous coronary intervention: A systematic review and networ
meta-analysis

11
Sixty Years of Placebo-Controlled Antipsychotic Drug Trials in Acut
Schizophrenia: Systematic Review, Bayesian Meta-Analysis, and Meta-Regression of
Efficacy Predictors

12
Association of STOP-Bang Questionnaire as a Screening Tool for Sleep Apnea an
Postoperative Complications: A Systematic Review and Bayesian Meta-analysis o
Prospective and Retrospective Cohort Studies

13
Certolizumab pegol and secukinumab for treating active psoriatic arthriti
following inadequate response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs: 
systematic review and economic evaluation

14
Comparative effectiveness of different transarterial embolization therapies alon
or in combination with local ablative or adjuvant systemic treatments fo
unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma: A network meta-analysis of randomize
controlled trials

15
Diagnostic Accuracy of Novel and Traditional Rapid Tests for Influenza Infection
Compared With Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction: A Systemati
Review and Meta-analysis

16
Cabozantinib versus everolimus, nivolumab, axitinib, sorafenib and bes
supportive care: A network meta-analysis of progression-free survival and overal
survival in second line treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma

17
New York Heart Association class and the survival benefit from primary preventio
implantable cardioverter defibrillators: A pooled analysis of 4 randomize
controlled trials

18
Comparison of efficacy of pharmacological treatments for chronic idiopathi
constipation: a systematic review and network meta-analysis

19
Comparative efficacy and safety of oral antidiabetic drugs and insulin i
treating gestational diabetes mellitus: An updated PRISMA-compliant networ
meta-analysis

20
The effects of various diets on glycemic outcomes during pregnancy: A systematic
review and network meta-analysis

21
Incremental diagnostic quality gain of CTA over V/Q scan in the assessment o
pulmonary embolism by means of a Wells score Bayesian model: results from th
ACDC collaboration

22
A Bayesian network meta-analysis of whole brain radiotherapy and stereotacti
radiotherapy for brain metastasis

23
Association of Minimal Residual Disease With Clinical Outcome in Pediatric an
Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia: A Meta-analysis

24
Meta-Analysis Comparing Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting to Drug-Eluting Stent
and to Medical Therapy Alone for Left Main Coronary Artery Disease

25
Meta-analysis of two studies in the presence of heterogeneity with application
in rare diseases

26
A comparison of discontinuation rates of tofacitinib and biologi
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs in rheumatoid arthritis: a systemati
review and Bayesian network meta-analysis

27

28
The Efficacy and Safety of 3 Types of Interventions for Stroke Prevention i
Patients With Cardiovascular and Cerebrovascular Diseases: A Networ
Meta-analysis

29
The effects of ant nests on soil fertility and plant performance: 
meta-analysis

30
Efficacy and safety comparison of chemotherapies for advanced gastric cancer: 
network meta-analysis

31
Meta-Analysis of the Relative Efficacy and Safety of Oral P2Y12 Inhibitors i
Patients With Acute Coronary Syndrome

32
Postoperative Efficacy, Predictability, Safety, and Visual Quality of Lase
Corneal Refractive Surgery: A Network Meta-analysis

33
Multimodality treatment of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of th
oesophagus: A comprehensive review and network meta-analysis

34
Comparative effectiveness of oral antidiabetic drugs in preventing cardiovascula
mortality and morbidity: A network meta-analysis

35
Risk of acute myocardial infarction with NSAIDs in real world use: bayesia
meta-analysis of individual patient data

36
Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have complete
the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf an
declare: MB reports grants from McGill University Health Centre Researc
Institute during the conduct of the study and personal fees from Institu
national d’excellence en santé et services sociaux, outside the submitted work
JMB reports serving on the Data Monitoring Committee for the PRECISION trial
which is sponsored by Pfizer, during the conduct of the study; BR report
personal fees from Certara, outside the submitted work; EG reports personal fees
from Astellas, grants and personal fees from Bayer, GSK, Novartis, Takeda, an
Nycomed, and grants from STADA, Sanofi-Aventis, and Celgene, outside th
submitted work

37
Biologics or tofacitinib for people with rheumatoid arthritis naive t
methotrexate: a systematic review and network meta-analysis

38
Comparative safety of anti-epileptic drugs during pregnancy: a systematic review
and network meta-analysis of congenital malformations and prenatal outcomes

39
Systematic review with network meta-analysis: comparative efficacy an
tolerability of different intravenous iron formulations for the treatment of iro
deficiency anaemia in patients with inflammatory bowel disease

40
Systematic review with meta-analysis: comparative efficacy of biologics fo
induction and maintenance of mucosal healing in Crohn's disease and ulcerativ
colitis controlled trials

41
Glycemic Control During Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Infusion Versus Multiple
Daily Insulin Injections in Type 2 Diabetes: Individual Patient Dat
Meta-analysis and Meta-regression of Randomized Controlled Trials

42
Who's biased? A meta-analysis of buyer-seller differences in the pricing o
lotteries

43
Acute Care Diagnostic Collaboration: Bayesian modeling comparative diagnosti
assessment of lactate, procalcitonin and CRP in risk stratified population b
Mortality in ED (MEDS) score

44
Capsaicin 8% Patch Versus Oral Neuropathic Pain Medications for the Treatment of
Painful Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy: A Systematic Literature Review an
Network Meta-analysis

45
Comparative efficacy and tolerability of pharmacological and somati
interventions in adult patients with treatment-resistant depression: a systemati
review and network meta-analysis

46
Does antimicrobial lock solution reduce catheter-related infections i
hemodialysis patients with central venous catheters? A Bayesian networ
meta-analysis

47
Updating Evidence for Using Hypothermia in Pediatric Severe Traumatic Brai
Injury: Conventional and Bayesian Meta-Analytic Perspectives

48
Maintenance immunosuppression for adults undergoing liver transplantation: 
network meta-analysis

49
Surgical interventions to treat humerus shaft fractures: A network meta-analysis
of randomized controlled trials

50
Comparative effectiveness of different wound dressings for patients wit
partial-thickness burns: study protocol of a systematic review and a Bayesia
framework network meta-analysis

51
A network meta-analysis of eight chemotherapy regimens for treatment of advanced
ovarian cancer

52
Usefulness of bone scintigraphy for the diagnosis of Complex Regional Pai
Syndrome 1: A systematic review and Bayesian meta-analysis

53
Systematic literature review and network meta-analysis in highly activ
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis and rapidly evolving severe multipl
sclerosis

54
Biologics or tofacitinib for people with rheumatoid arthritis unsuccessfull
treated with biologics: a systematic review and network meta-analysis

55
D-cycloserine augmentation of behavior therapy for anxiety an
obsessive-compulsive disorders: A meta-analysis

56
Prioritizing Systemic Corticosteroid Treatments to Mitigate Relapse in Adult
With Acute Asthma: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-analysis

57
Interventions for preventing cardiomyopathy due to anthracyclines: a Bayesia
network meta-analysis

58
A comparison of cangrelor, prasugrel, ticagrelor, and clopidogrel in patient
undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention: A network meta-analysis

59
Identification of the Best Direct-Acting Antiviral Regimen for Patients Wit
Hepatitis C Virus Genotype 3 Infection: A Systematic Review and Networ
Meta-analysis

60
Cardiovascular events and all-cause mortality associated with sulphonylurea
compared with other antihyperglycaemic drugs: A Bayesian meta-analysis o
survival data

61
Long-term mortality after acute myocardial infarction among individuals with and
without diabetes: A systematic review and meta-analysis of studies in th
post-reperfusion era

62
Hypertensive disorders during pregnancy and risk of type 2 diabetes in late
life: a systematic review and meta-analysis

63
A comparison of surgical outcomes and complications between hemostatic device
for thyroid surgery: a network meta-analysis

64
Systematic Review and Network Meta-analysis of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosi
Treatments

65
Systemic Therapy for Previously Untreated Advanced BRAF-Mutated Melanoma: 
Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis of Randomized Clinical Trials

66
Efficacy and safety of medical therapy for low bone mineral density in patient
with Crohn disease: A systematic review with network meta-analysis

67
Real role of β-blockers in regression of left ventricular mass in hypertensio
patients: Bayesian network meta-analysis

68
Postoperative Bleeding and Associated Utilization following Tonsillectomy i
Children

69
Effects of different phosphate lowering strategies in patients with CKD o
laboratory outcomes: A systematic review and NMA

70
Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting With and Without Manipulation of the Ascendin
Aorta: A Network Meta-Analysis

71
Impact of Viral Status on Survival in Patients Receiving Sorafenib for Advance
Hepatocellular Cancer: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Phase III Trials

72
Drought, conflict and children's undernutrition in Ethiopia 2000-2013: 
meta-analysis

73
Improved rule-out diagnostic gain with a combined aortic dissection detectio
risk score and D-dimer Bayesian decision support scheme

74
Clear or almost clear skin improves the quality of life in patients wit
moderate-to-severe psoriasis: a systematic review and meta-analysis

75
Pharmacological and psychotherapeutic interventions for management of poststroke
depression: A Bayesian network meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials

76
Durability of cervical disc arthroplasties and its influence factors: 
systematic review and a network meta-analysis

77
Renin angiotensin system inhibitors for patients with stable coronary arter
disease without heart failure: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized
trials

78
Conflict of interest statement: All authors have completed the ICMJE unifor
disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf and declare: no support from
any organisation for the submitted work; SB declares honorariums fro
Daiichi-Sankyo, Pfizer, Abbott, Merck, Boerhinger-Ingelheim, Gilead, an
Abbott-Vascular; SW is employed and hold shares at Novartis Pharma AG (Basel
Switzerland); FHM declares honorariums from Daiichi-Sankyo, Pfizer, Abbott
Servier, WebMD, Ipca, American College of Cardiology, Menarini, and Relypsa; the
remaining authors have no relevant disclosures; none of the authors received any
compensation for their work on this manuscript

79
Which is best for osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures: balloo
kyphoplasty, percutaneous vertebroplasty or non-surgical treatment? A stud
protocol for a Bayesian network meta-analysis

80
Systematic review and network meta-analysis of tedizolid for the treatment o
acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections caused by MRSA

81
Genome-wide Trans-ethnic Meta-analysis Identifies Seven Genetic Loci Influencing
Erythrocyte Traits and a Role for RBPMS in Erythropoiesis

82
Do antibody responses to the influenza vaccine persist year-round in the elderly
A systematic review and meta-analysis

83
Comparative Efficacy and Safety of Antihypertensive Agents for Adult Diabeti
Patients with Microalbuminuric Kidney Disease: A Network Meta-Analysis

84
Systematic review with meta-analysis: comparative efficacy of immunosuppressants
and biologics for reducing hospitalisation and surgery in Crohn's disease an
ulcerative colitis

85
Comparative Effectiveness of 12 Treatment Strategies for Preventin
Contrast-Induced Acute Kidney Injury: A Systematic Review and Bayesian Networ
Meta-analysis

86
Minimally Invasive Extracorporeal Circulation Circuit Is Not Inferior to Off-Pum
Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting: Meta-Analysis Using the Bayesian Method

87
Impact of Physical Activity on Cognitive Decline, Dementia, and Its Subtypes
Meta-Analysis of Prospective Studies

88
Prophylaxis Against Atrial Fibrillation After General Thoracic Surgery: Tria
Sequential Analysis and Network Meta-Analysis

89
GAD vaccine reduces insulin loss in recently diagnosed type 1 diabetes: findings
from a Bayesian meta-analysis

90
Clarifying the debate on population-based screening for breast cancer wit
mammography: A systematic review of randomized controlled trials on mammograph
with Bayesian meta-analysis and causal model

91
Effects of intranasal oxytocin on symptoms of schizophrenia: A multivariat
Bayesian meta-analysis

92
Aripiprazole Lauroxil Compared with Paliperidone Palmitate in Patients wit
Schizophrenia: An Indirect Treatment Comparison

93
Chemoprevention of colorectal cancer in individuals with previous colorecta
neoplasia: systematic review and network meta-analysis

94
Conflict of interest statement: All authors have completed the ICMJE unifor
disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf and declare: PSD and EM ar
supported by the NIDDK training grant 5T32DK007202. SS is supported by th
NIH/NLM training grant T15LM011271 and the American College of Gastroenterolog
junior faculty development award. SG is partly supported by NCI 
U54CA132379-06A1, as well as merit review award No 1 I01 HX001574-01A1 from th
US Department of Veterans Affairs Health Services Research and Developmen
Service of the VA Office of Research and Development. The views expressed in thi
article are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily represent the views of
the Department of Veterans Affairs

95
Combination Therapies for Smoking Cessation: A Hierarchical Bayesia
Meta-Analysis

96
Comparison of heparin, bivalirudin, and different glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibito
regimens for anticoagulation during percutaneous coronary intervention: A networ
meta-analysis

97
Standard dose versus low dose non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants i
Asian patients with atrial fibrillation: A meta-analysis of contemporar
randomized controlled trials

98
Comparative Effectiveness of Plain Balloon Angioplasty, Bare Metal Stents
Drug-Coated Balloons, and Drug-Eluting Stents for the Treatment of Infrapoplitea
Artery Disease: Systematic Review and Bayesian Network Meta-analysis o
Randomized Controlled Trials

99
A Bayesian network meta-analysis of three different surgical procedures for th
treatment of humeral shaft fractures

100
Safety profile of biologic drugs in the therapy of Crohn disease: A systemati
review and network meta-analysis

101
Diagnostic accuracy of clinical illness for bovine respiratory disease (BRD
diagnosis in beef cattle placed in feedlots: A systematic literature review an
hierarchical Bayesian latent-class meta-analysis

102
Effects of Hazelnut Consumption on Blood Lipids and Body Weight: A Systemati
Review and Bayesian Meta-Analysis

103
Systematic Review and Meta-analysis of the Pharmacokinetics of Benznidazole i
the Treatment of Chagas Disease

104
Effectiveness and Safety of Interventions for Treating Adults with Displace
Proximal Humeral Fracture: A Network Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review

105
Biologic or tofacitinib monotherapy for rheumatoid arthritis in people wit
traditional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD) failure: a Cochran
Systematic Review and network meta-analysis (NMA)

106
Summary diagnostic validity of commonly used maternal major depression disorde
case finding instruments in the United States: A meta-analysis

107
Efficacy and safety of long-term treatment with statins for coronary hear
disease: A Bayesian network meta-analysis

108
Hyperthermia and radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy in locally advance
cervical cancer: a systematic review with conventional and network meta-analyses

109
Comparative efficacy and safety of tocilizumab, rituximab, abatacept an
tofacitinib in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis that inadequatel
responds to tumor necrosis factor inhibitors: a Bayesian network meta-analysis o
randomized controlled trials

110
Cervical disc arthroplasty for symptomatic cervical disc disease: Traditional an
Bayesian meta-analysis with trial sequential analysis

111
Prediction of portal and hepatic blood flow from intake level data in cattle

112
Pharmacological and Mechanical Thromboprophylaxis in Critically Ill Patients: 
Network Meta-Analysis of 12 Trials

113
Comparative efficacy and safety of first-line antiretroviral therapy for th
treatment of HIV infection: a systematic review and network meta-analysis

114
Methods to decrease blood loss during liver resection: a network meta-analysis

115
A Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis to Evaluate the Comparativ
Efficacy of Interventions for Unfit Patients with Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia

116
The Validity of Left Ventricular Mass as a Surrogate End Point for All-Cause and
Cardiovascular Mortality Outcomes in People With CKD: A Systematic Review an
Meta-analysis

117
Comparison of Inhaled Antibiotics for the Treatment of Chronic Pseudomona
aeruginosa Lung Infection in Patients With Cystic Fibrosis: Systematic Literatur
Review and Network Meta-analysis

118
Fluoropyrimidine-Based Chemotherapy as First-Line Treatment for Advanced Gastric
Cancer: a Bayesian Network Meta-Analysis

119
Risk of serious infections with immunosuppressive drugs and glucocorticoids fo
lupus nephritis: a systematic review and network meta-analysis

120
Comparison of Efficacy of Prophylactic Endoscopic Therapies for Postpolypectom
Bleeding in the Colorectum: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis

121
Early Change in Urine Protein as a Surrogate End Point in Studies of Ig
Nephropathy: An Individual-Patient Meta-analysis

122
Network meta-analysis of efficacy and safety of competitive oral anticoagulant
in patients undergoing radiofrequency catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation

123
Comparative efficacy of disease-modifying therapies for patients with relapsin
remitting multiple sclerosis: Systematic review and network meta-analysis

124
Methotrexate monotherapy and methotrexate combination therapy with traditiona
and biologic disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs for rheumatoid arthritis: 
network meta-analysis

125
Comparative efficacy and tolerability of antidepressants for major depressiv
disorder in children and adolescents: a network meta-analysis

126
Drug-Coated Balloon Versus Plain Balloon Angioplasty for the Treatmen
of Femoropopliteal Artery Disease: An Updated Systematic Review and Meta-Analysi
of Randomized Clinical Trials

127
ACE-inhibitors versus angiotensin receptor blockers for prevention of events i
cardiovascular patients without heart failure - A network meta-analysis

128
Physical activity and risk of breast cancer, colon cancer, diabetes, ischemi
heart disease, and ischemic stroke events: systematic review and dose-respons
meta-analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2013

129
Conflict of interest statement: All authors have completed the ICMJE unifor
disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf and declare: no support from
any organisation for the submitted work; no financial relationships with an
organisations that might have an interest in the submitted work in the previou
three years; no other relationships or activities that could appear to hav
influenced the submitted work

130
Association of Noninvasive Ventilation Strategies With Mortality an
Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia Among Preterm Infants: A Systematic Review an
Meta-analysis

131
Comparison of the Non-VKA Oral Anticoagulants Apixaban, Dabigatran, an
Rivaroxaban in the Extended Treatment and Prevention of Venous Thromboembolism
Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis

132
Injection therapies for lateral epicondylalgia: a systematic review and Bayesian
network meta-analysis

133
Meta-analysis supporting noninferiority of oxaliplatin plus S-1 to cisplatin plu
S-1 in first-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer (G-SOX study): indirec
comparison with S-1 alone

134
The comparative efficacy and safety of cholinesterase inhibitors in patients wit
mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease: a Bayesian network meta-analysis

135
Network meta-analysis of Chinese herb injections combined with FOLFO
chemotherapy in the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer

136
Pharmacological regimens for eradication of Helicobacter pylori: an overview o
systematic reviews and network meta-analysis

137
Development and Evaluation of a Gentamicin Pharmacokinetic Model That Facilitate
Opportunistic Gentamicin Therapeutic Drug Monitoring in Neonates and Infants

138
Comparative efficacy and acceptability of first-generation and second-generation
antidepressants in the acute treatment of major depression: protocol for 
network meta-analysis

139
Comparative effectiveness of pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic interventions fo
orthodontic pain relief at peak pain intensity: A Bayesian network meta-analysis

140
Skin antiseptics in venous puncture site disinfection for preventing bloo
culture contamination: A Bayesian network meta-analysis of randomized controlled
trials

141
Treatment efficacy of anti-hypertensive drugs in monotherapy or combination: ATO
systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials according t
PRISMA statement

142
[Impact of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists on nasopharyngitis and uppe
respiratory tract infection among patients with type 2 diabetes: a networ
meta-analysis]

143

144
Association of Pharmacological Treatments for Obesity With Weight Loss an
Adverse Events: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis

145
Comparative efficacy of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) i
treating major depressive disorder: a protocol for network meta-analysis o
randomised controlled trials

146
Nivolumab versus Cabozantinib: Comparing Overall Survival in Metastatic Rena
Cell Carcinoma

147
Systematic review with network meta-analysis: comparative effectiveness an
safety of strategies for preventing NSAID-associated gastrointestinal toxicity

148
Comparative efficacy of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in ankylosin
spondylitis: a Bayesian network meta-analysis of clinical trials

149
Risk of End-Stage Renal Disease in Patients With Lupus Nephritis, 1971-2015: 
Systematic Review and Bayesian Meta-Analysis

150
Network Meta-Analysis Comparing Overall Survival for Fulvestrant 500 mg Versu
Alternative Therapies for Treatment of Postmenopausal, Estrogen Receptor-Positiv
Advanced Breast Cancer Following Failure on Prior Endocrine Therapy

151
[The Effectiveness of Different Corticosteroid Injections in Patients With Carpa
Tunnel Syndrome: A Bayesian Network Meta-Analysis]

152
Directly Placed Restorative Materials: Review and Network Meta-analysis

153
Prevalence of Neuropathic Pain in Cancer Patients: Pooled Estimates From 
Systematic Review of Published Literature and Results From a Survey Conducted in
50 Italian Palliative Care Centers

154
Association of Pathologic Complete Response to Neoadjuvant Therapy i
HER2-Positive Breast Cancer With Long-Term Outcomes: A Meta-Analysis

155
Relative efficacy and tolerability of etoricoxib, celecoxib, and naproxen in the
treatment of osteoarthritis : A Bayesian network meta-analysis of randomize
controlled trials based on patient withdrawal

156
Optimal P2Y12 Inhibitor in Patients With ST-Segment Elevation Myocardia
Infarction Undergoing Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention: A Networ
Meta-Analysis

157
Lancet. 2016 May 21;387(10033):2093-2105. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(16)30002-2
Epub 2016 Mar 18

158
The magnitude and mechanisms of the weekend effect in hospital admissions: 
protocol for a mixed methods review incorporating a systematic review an
framework synthesis

159
Biologics or tofacitinib for rheumatoid arthritis in incomplete responders t
methotrexate or other traditional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs: 
systematic review and network meta-analysis

160
Effect of gargling with tea and ingredients of tea on the prevention of influenz
infection: a meta-analysis

161
Anti-Tumor Effects of Ketogenic Diets in Mice: A Meta-Analysis

162
Efficacy and Acceptability of Glycemic Control of Glucagon-Like Peptide-
Receptor Agonists among Type 2 Diabetes: A Systematic Review and Networ
Meta-Analysis

163
Renin-Angiotensin System Inhibitors and Kidney and Cardiovascular Outcomes i
Patients With CKD: A Bayesian Network Meta-analysis of Randomized Clinica
Trials

164
Air pollution exposure, cause-specific deaths and hospitalizations in a highl
polluted Italian region

165
Safety and efficacy of miniaturized extracorporeal circulation when compared wit
off-pump and conventional coronary artery bypass grafting: evidence synthesi
from a comprehensive Bayesian-framework network meta-analysis of 134 randomize
controlled trials involving 22 778 patients

166
Are beta-blockers effective for preventing post-coronary artery bypass graftin
atrial fibrillation? Direct and network meta-analyses

167
Recurrence, retreatment, and rebleed rates of coiled aneurysms with respect t
the Raymond-Roy scale: a meta-analysis

168
Comparative efficacy of antiviral therapy in preventing vertical transmission of
hepatitis B: a network meta-analysis

169
Comparative efficacy of vitamin D status in reducing the risk of bladder cancer:
A systematic review and network meta-analysis

170
Fracture risk in oral glucocorticoid users: a Bayesian meta-regression leveragin
control arms of osteoporosis clinical trials

171
Comparative efficacy and tolerability of duloxetine, pregabalin, and milnacipran
for the treatment of fibromyalgia: a Bayesian network meta-analysis of randomize
controlled trials

172
Methotrexate monotherapy and methotrexate combination therapy with traditiona
and biologic disease modifying antirheumatic drugs for rheumatoid arthritis
abridged Cochrane systematic review and network meta-analysis

173

174
Systematic review with network meta-analysis: statins and risk of hepatocellular
carcinoma

175
Interventions for necrotising pancreatitis

176
The placebo effect in thyroid cancer: a meta-analysis

177
JAM: A Scalable Bayesian Framework for Joint Analysis of Marginal SNP Effects

178
Analysis of sentinel node biopsy combined with other diagnostic tools in staging
cN0 head and neck cancer: A diagnostic meta-analysis

179
Comparative Effectiveness of Blood Pressure-lowering Drugs in Patients who hav
Already Suffered From Stroke: Traditional and Bayesian Network Meta-analysis o
Randomized Trials

180
Comparative Efficacy of Interventional Therapies for Early-stage Hepatocellula
Carcinoma: A PRISMA-compliant Systematic Review and Network Meta-analysis

181
A network meta-analysis comparing perioperative outcomes of interventions aiming
to decrease ischemia reperfusion injury during elective liver resection

182
Comparative efficacy of fixed-dose combinations of long-acting muscarini
antagonists and long-acting β2-agonists: a systematic review and networ
meta-analysis

183
Systematic review with network meta-analysis: comparative effectiveness o
topical steroids vs. PPIs for the treatment of the spectrum of eosinophili
oesophagitis

184
A meta-analysis of brief alcohol interventions for adolescents and young adults:
variability in effects across alcohol measures

185
Effect of Leukocyte Concentration on the Efficacy of Platelet-Rich Plasma in the
Treatment of Knee Osteoarthritis

186
Drug Treatment of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis: Systematic Review and Networ
Meta-Analysis

187
Pathological T0 Following Cisplatin-Based Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy fo
Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer: A Network Meta-analysis

188
Effects of glucose-lowering and multifactorial interventions on cardiovascula
and mortality outcomes: a meta-analysis of randomized control trials

189
Efficacy, Acceptability, and Tolerability of Antipsychotics i
Treatment-Resistant Schizophrenia: A Network Meta-analysis

190
Comparative Effectiveness of Biologic Therapy Regimens for Ankylosin
Spondylitis: A Systematic Review and a Network Meta-Analysis

191
Treatments for the Fifth Metacarpal Neck Fractures: A Network Meta-analysis o
Randomized Controlled Trials

192
Comparative efficacy and safety of estradiol transdermal preparations for th
treatment of vasomotor symptoms in postmenopausal women: an indirect compariso
meta-analysis

193
Risk of Myocardial Infarction in Patients with Long-Term Non-Vitamin K Antagonis
Oral Anticoagulant Treatment

194
Medical Therapies for Uterine Fibroids - A Systematic Review and Networ
Meta-Analysis of Randomised Controlled Trials

195
SGLT-2 receptor inhibitors for treating patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
systematic review and network meta-analysis

196
Comparative assessment of onabotulinumtoxinA and mirabegron for overactiv
bladder: an indirect treatment comparison

197
Evaluation of a Rapid Point of Care Test for Detecting Acute and Established HIV
Infection, and Examining the Role of Study Quality on Diagnostic Accuracy: 
Bayesian Meta-Analysis

198
Efficacy and safety of antithrombotic regimens after coronary intervention i
patients on oral anticoagulation: Traditional and Bayesian meta-analysis o
clinical trials

199
Accuracy of clinical diagnosis of Parkinson disease: A systematic review an
meta-analysis

200
The impact of proprotein convertase subtilisin-kexin type 9 serine proteas
inhibitors on lipid levels and outcomes in patients with primar
hypercholesterolaemia: a network meta-analysis

201
Albendazole and Corticosteroids for the Treatment of Solitary Cysticercu
Granuloma: A Network Meta-analysis

202
Treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis: a network meta-analysis

203
A systematic review and network meta-analysis comparing the use of Fole
catheters, misoprostol, and dinoprostone for cervical ripening in the inductio
of labour

204
Is Local Infiltration Analgesia Superior to Peripheral Nerve Blockade for Pai
Management After THA: A Network Meta-analysis

205
Diagnostic accuracy and utility of coronary CT angiography with consideration of
unevaluable results: A systematic review and multivariate Bayesian random-effect
meta-analysis with intention to diagnose

206
Systematic meta-analyses and field synopsis of genetic association studies i
colorectal adenomas

207
Pharmacologic Interventions for Infantile Hemangioma: A Meta-analysis

208
A Bayesian framework systematic review and meta-analysis of anesthetic agent
effectiveness/tolerability profile in electroconvulsive therapy for majo
depression

209
The effectiveness and safety of treatments used for acute diarrhea and acut
gastroenteritis in children: protocol for a systematic review and networ
meta-analysis

210
Comparative safety and effectiveness of cognitive enhancers for Alzheimer'
dementia: protocol for a systematic review and individual patient data networ
meta-analysis

211
Meta-Analysis of a Complex Network of Non-Pharmacological Interventions: Th
Example of Femoral Neck Fracture

212
Antimicrobial lock solutions for the prevention of catheter-related infection in
patients undergoing haemodialysis: study protocol for network meta-analysis o
randomised controlled trials

213
Systematic review with meta-analysis: direct comparisons of biomarkers for th
diagnosis of fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C and B

214
A Meta-Analysis of Executive Dysfunction and Antidepressant Treatment Response i
Late-Life Depression

215
Comparative Efficacy and Safety of Prasugrel, Ticagrelor, and Standard-Dose an
High-Dose Clopidogrel in Patients Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary Intervention:
A Network Meta-analysis

216
Simultaneous Comparison of Efficacy and Adverse Events of Interventions fo
Patients with Esophageal Cancer: Protocol for a Systematic Review and Bayesia
Network Meta-analysis

217

218
Glaucoma in Asia: regional prevalence variations and future projections

219
Surgical excision margins in primary cutaneous melanoma: A meta-analysis an
Bayesian probability evaluation

220
A Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis to Assess the Relative Efficacy of
Antipsychotics for the Treatment of Positive and Negative Symptoms in Early-Onse
Schizophrenia

221
An indirect comparison and cost per responder analysis of adalimumab
methotrexate and apremilast in the treatment of methotrexate-naïve patients with
psoriatic arthritis

222
Targeted Treatments for Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension: Interpreting Outcomes b
Network Meta-analysis

223
Computerized cognitive training and functional recovery in major depressiv
disorder: A meta-analysis

224
Publication bias and small-study effects magnified effectiveness o
antipsychotics but their relative ranking remained invariant

225
Comparative Effectiveness of First-Line Medications for Primary Open-Angl
Glaucoma: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-analysis

226
Sensitivity, Specificity, and Posttest Probability of Parotid Fine-Needl
Aspiration: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis

227
Mesh Location in Open Ventral Hernia Repair: A Systematic Review and Networ
Meta-analysis

228
Comparison of the Novel Oral Anticoagulants Apixaban, Dabigatran, Edoxaban, an
Rivaroxaban in the Initial and Long-Term Treatment and Prevention of Venou
Thromboembolism: Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis

229
Antihypertensive treatments in adult autosomal dominant polycystic kidne
disease: network meta-analysis of the randomized controlled trials

230
Calibration of crash risk models on freeways with limited real-time traffic data
using Bayesian meta-analysis and Bayesian inference approach

231
Behavioral Programs for Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: A Systematic Review and Networ
Meta-analysis

232
Systematic review and network meta-analysis comparing clinical outcomes an
effectiveness of surgical treatments for haemorrhoids

233
Inhaled Cannabis for Chronic Neuropathic Pain: A Meta-analysis of Individua
Patient Data

234
Relative efficacy and safety of tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil, an
cyclophosphamide as induction therapy for lupus nephritis: a Bayesian networ
meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials

235
Comparative efficacy and safety of tofacitinib, with or without methotrexate, in
patients with active rheumatoid arthritis: a Bayesian network meta-analysis o
randomized controlled trials

236
Efficacy of nonvenous medications for acute convulsive seizures: A networ
meta-analysis

237
A Bayesian network meta-analysis: Comparing the clinical effectiveness of loca
corticosteroid injections using different treatment strategies for carpal tunnel
syndrome

238
Mesh fixation methods in open inguinal hernia repair: a protocol for networ
meta-analysis and trial sequential analysis of randomised controlled trials

239
Comparative efficacy of long-acting muscarinic antagonist monotherapies in COPD:
a systematic review and network meta-analysis

240
Treatment strategies for coronary in-stent restenosis: systematic review an
hierarchical Bayesian network meta-analysis of 24 randomised trials and 488
patients

241

242
The efficacy and safety of triple inhaled treatment in patients with chroni
obstructive pulmonary disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis usin
Bayesian methods

243
Efficacy of various percutaneous interventions for in-stent restenosis
comprehensive network meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials

244
Ranibizumab vs. aflibercept for wet age-related macular degeneration: networ
meta-analysis to understand the value of reduced frequency dosing

245
Bayesian network meta-comparison of maintenance treatments for stage IIIb/I
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with good performance status no
progressing after first-line induction chemotherapy: results by performanc
status, EGFR mutation, histology and response to previous induction

246
Comparison of cardiac events associated with liposomal doxorubicin, epirubici
and doxorubicin in breast cancer: a Bayesian network meta-analysis

247
Comparative effectiveness of pharmacological interventions for nonalcoholi
steatohepatitis: A systematic review and network meta-analysis

248
A Cochrane systematic review and network meta-analysis comparing treatmen
strategies aiming to decrease blood loss during liver resection

249
Antibacterial effects of cavity lining: a systematic review and networ
meta-analysis

250
Bleeding risks with novel oral anticoagulants during catheter ablation of atrial
fibrillation: a systematic review and network meta-analysis

251
Antithrombotic Treatment for Recurrent Miscarriage: Bayesian Networ
Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review

252
Pooled Bayesian meta-analysis of two Polish studies on radiation-induced cancers

253
Dietary Intervention for Overweight and Obese Adults: Comparison o
Low-Carbohydrate and Low-Fat Diets. A Meta-Analysis

254
A Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis of Biologic Agents in the Firs
Line Setting for Advanced Colorectal Cancer

255
Comparative efficacy and acceptability of psychotherapies for acute anxiet
disorders in children and adolescents: study protocol for a networ
meta-analysis

256
Outcomes after multivessel or culprit-Vessel intervention for ST-elevatio
myocardial infarction in patients with multivessel coronary disease: a Bayesia
cross-design meta-analysis

257
Comparative Effectiveness of Pharmacological Interventions for Severe Alcoholi
Hepatitis: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-analysis

258
Network Meta-Analysis Comparing Relatively Selective COX-2 Inhibitors Versu
Coxibs for the Prevention of NSAID-Induced Gastrointestinal Injury

259
Therapeutic efficacy of combined BRAF and MEK inhibition in metastatic melanoma:
a comprehensive network meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials

260
Comparative efficacy and tolerability of first-generation and newer-generatio
antidepressant medications for depressive disorders in children and adolescents:
study protocol for a systematic review and network meta-analysis

261
Comparative efficacy of combination bronchodilator therapies in COPD: a networ
meta-analysis

262
Lung protective ventilation in patients undergoing major surgery: a systemati
review incorporating a Bayesian approach

263
Metformin for the treatment of gestational diabetes: An updated meta-analysis

264
Foliar interception of radionuclides in dry conditions: a meta-analysis using 
Bayesian modeling approach

265
The Efficacy and Safety of Chemotherapy in Patients With Nonsmall Cell Lun
Cancer and Interstitial Lung Disease: A PRISMA-Compliant Bayesian Meta-Analysi
and Systematic Review

266
Indirect comparison of teriparatide, denosumab, and oral bisphosphonates for the
prevention of vertebral and nonvertebral fractures in postmenopausal women wit
osteoporosis

267
Evolutionary processes driving spatial patterns of intraspecific geneti
diversity in river ecosystems

268
Meta-analysis of the relationship between breaks in sedentary behavior an
cardiometabolic health

269
Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Response Rates and Diagnostic Yield o
Screening for Type 2 Diabetes and Those at High Risk of Diabetes

270
Comparison of physical interventions, behavioral interventions, natural healt
products, and pharmacologics to manage hot flashes in patients with breast o
prostate cancer: protocol for a systematic review incorporating networ
meta-analyses

271
Comparative Efficacy and Safety of Different Antiplatelet Agents for Preventio
of Major Cardiovascular Events and Leg Amputations in Patients with Periphera
Arterial Disease: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis

272
Associations between neighbourhood walkability and daily steps in adults: 
systematic review and meta-analysis

273
Inter-Ethnic/Racial Facial Variations: A Systematic Review and Bayesia
Meta-Analysis of Photogrammetric Studies

274
Adverse effects associated with the direct anterior approach for total hi
arthroplasty: a Bayesian meta-analysis

275
Front-line, dose-escalated immunochemotherapy is associated with a significan
progression-free survival advantage in patients with double-hit lymphomas: 
systematic review and meta-analysis

276
Chemoradiotherapy regimens for locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma:
A Bayesian network meta-analysis

277
Comparing energy sources for surgical ablation of atrial fibrillation: a Bayesia
network meta-analysis of randomized, controlled trials

278
Bayesian network meta-analysis to evaluate interferon-free treatments in naiv
patients with genotype 1 hepatitis C virus infection

279
Comparative effectiveness of antiviral treatment for hepatitis B: a systemati
review and Bayesian network meta-analysis

280
Management of Listeria monocytogenes in fermented sausages using the Food Safety
Objective concept underpinned by stochastic modeling and meta-analysis

281
Small studies are more heterogeneous than large ones: a meta-meta-analysis

282
Spatial distribution of schistosomiasis and treatment needs in sub-Sahara
Africa: a systematic review and geostatistical analysis

283
Additive Effect on Survival of Anaesthetic Cardiac Protection and Remote Ischemi
Preconditioning in Cardiac Surgery: A Bayesian Network Meta-Analysis o
Randomized Trials

284
Projection of Diabetes Population Size and Associated Economic Burden throug
2030 in Iran: Evidence from Micro-Simulation Markov Model and Bayesia
Meta-Analysis

285
Risk of serious infection in biological treatment of patients with rheumatoi
arthritis: a systematic review and meta-analysis

286
Incidence of Late-Stage Age-Related Macular Degeneration in American Whites
Systematic Review and Meta-analysis

287
Oral Mechanical Bowel Preparation for Colorectal Surgery: Systematic Review an
Meta-Analysis

288
Triptans in the Acute Treatment of Migraine: A Systematic Review and Networ
Meta-Analysis

289
Systemic antibiotics in the treatment of aggressive periodontitis. A systemati
review and a Bayesian Network meta-analysis

290
Immunonutrition Support for Patients Undergoing Surgery for Gastrointestina
Malignancy: Preoperative, Postoperative, or Perioperative? A Bayesian Networ
Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials

291
A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Medical Students' Perspectives on th
Engagement in Research

292
Evaluation of safety and effectiveness of factor VIII treatment in haemophilia A
patients with low titre inhibitors or a personal history of inhibitor. Patien
Data Meta-analysis of rAFH-PFM Post-Authorization Safety Studies

293
The effect of sexually transmitted co-infections on HIV viral load amongs
individuals on antiretroviral therapy: a systematic review and meta-analysis

294
Mortality in patients treated with extended duration dual antiplatelet therap
after drug-eluting stent implantation: a pairwise and Bayesian networ
meta-analysis of randomised trials

295
Genome-wide association study for calving performance using high-densit
genotypes in dairy and beef cattle

296
Comparative efficacy and safety of approved treatments for macular oedem
secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion: a network meta-analysis

297
Systematic review with network meta-analysis: comparative efficacy and safety of
budesonide and mesalazine (mesalamine) for Crohn's disease

298
First-line treatments for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia: interpreting efficac
data by network meta-analysis

299
Large scale meta-analysis of fragment-based screening campaigns: privilege
fragments and complementary technologies

300
Intraoperative mechanical ventilation strategies for obese patients: a systemati
review and network meta-analysis

301
The Continuing Story of the Cost-Effectiveness of Photoselective Vaporization of
the Prostate versus Transuretheral Resection of the Prostate for the Treatment o
Symptomatic Benign Prostatic Obstruction

302
Comparison between 200 mg QD and 100 mg BID oral celecoxib in the treatment o
knee or hip osteoarthritis

303
Infliximab is superior to other biological agents for treatment of activ
ulcerative colitis: A meta-analysis

304
Efficacy and Safety of HER2-Targeted Agents for Breast Cancer wit
HER2-Overexpression: A Network Meta-Analysis

305
Brief motivational interventions for college student drinking may not be a
powerful as we think: an individual participant-level data meta-analysis

306
A Bayesian network meta-analysis on the effect of inodilatory agents o
mortality

307
A multilevel approach to network meta-analysis within a frequentist framework

308
Comparative Efficacy of Four Treatments in Patients with Graves' Disease: 
Network Meta-analysis

309
Comparative efficacy and safety of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors an
serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors in older adults: a networ
meta-analysis

310
Comparative efficacy of radiofrequency and laser ablation for the treatment o
benign thyroid nodules: systematic review including traditional pooling an
bayesian network meta-analysis

311
Comparative Efficacy of Novel DMARDs as Monotherapy and in Combination wit
Methotrexate in Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients with Inadequate Response t
Conventional DMARDs: A Network Meta-Analysis

312
Prevalence of symptoms of vaginal fistula in 19 sub-Saharan Africa countries: 
meta-analysis of national household survey data

313
Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs as Prophylaxis for Heterotopic Ossification
after Total Hip Arthroplasty: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis

314
Comparative efficacy and tolerability of three treatments in old people wit
osteoporotic vertebral compression fracture: a network meta-analysis an
systematic review

315
Assessing the association between natural food folate intake and blood folat
concentrations: a systematic review and Bayesian meta-analysis of trials an
observational studies

316
Dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI for the detection of prostate cancer
meta-analysis

317
Immunoenhancing enteral and parenteral nutrition for gastrointestinal surgery: a
multiple-treatments meta-analysis

318
Meta-analysis of prognostic factors for amputation following surgical repair o
lower extremity vascular trauma

319
Attachment in institutionalized children: a review and meta-analysis

320
Qualitative elastography can replace thyroid nodule fine-needle aspiration i
patients with soft thyroid nodules. A systematic review and meta-analysis

321
The efficacy and safety of mechanical hemodynamic support in patients undergoing
high-risk percutaneous coronary intervention with or without cardiogenic shock
Bayesian approach network meta-analysis of 13 randomized controlled trials

322
Systematic literature review and network meta-analysis comparing bone-targete
agents for the prevention of skeletal-related events in cancer patients with bon
metastasis

323
Micronutrients in HIV: a Bayesian meta-analysis

324
Network meta-analysis of direct-acting antivirals in combination wit
peginterferon-ribavirin for previously untreated patients with hepatitis 
genotype 1 infection

325
Mechanical ventilation modes for respiratory distress syndrome in infants: 
systematic review and network meta-analysis

326
Relative benefit-risk comparing diclofenac to other traditional non-steroida
anti-inflammatory drugs and cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors in patients wit
osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis: a network meta-analysis

327
Systematic review and mixed treatment comparison meta-analysis of randomize
clinical trials of primary oral antifungal prophylaxis in allogenei
hematopoietic cell transplant recipients

328
Glycaemic control efficacy of oral antidiabetic drugs in treating type 
diabetes: a protocol for network meta-analysis

329
Safety evaluation on low-molecular-weight hydroxyethyl starch for volum
expansion therapy in pediatric patients: a meta-analysis of randomized controlle
trials

330
Transcatheter reduction of paravalvular leaks: a systematic review an
meta-analysis

331
Survival benefit of the primary prevention implantable cardioverter-defibrillato
among older patients: does age matter? An analysis of pooled data from 5 clinica
trials

332
Comparing the effectiveness of competing tests for reducing colorectal cance
mortality: a network meta-analysis

333
Network meta-analysis shows commercialized subcutaneous and sublingual gras
products have comparable efficacy

334
A meta-analysis platform methodology for determining the comparativ
effectiveness of antihepatitis C virus regimens

335
Comparison among drug-eluting balloon, drug-eluting stent, and plain balloo
angioplasty for the treatment of in-stent restenosis: a network meta-analysis of
11 randomized, controlled trials

336
Interventions for treating displaced midshaft clavicular fractures: a Bayesia
network meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials

337
Treatments for shoulder impingement syndrome: a PRISMA systematic review an
network meta-analysis

338
Extended duration dual antiplatelet therapy and mortality: a systematic revie
and meta-analysis

339
The pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment of attention defici
hyperactivity disorder in children and adolescents: protocol for a systemati
review and network meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials

340
Psychotherapy for depression in children and adolescents: study protocol for 
systematic review and network meta-analysis

341
Diagnostic accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) for the preoperativ
locoregional staging of primary gastric cancer

342
Labour induction with prostaglandins: a systematic review and networ
meta-analysis

343

344
Diabetes and congenital heart defects: a systematic review, meta-analysis, an
modeling project

345
A network meta-analysis of progression free survival and overall survival i
first-line treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia

346
Comparative effectiveness of immunosuppressants and biologics for inducing an
maintaining remission in Crohn's disease: a network meta-analysis

347
Gastrointestinal and renal side effects of bisphosphonates: differentiatin
between no proof of difference and proof of no difference

348
Relatedness is a poor predictor of negative plant-soil feedbacks

349
Electrical stimulation for pain relief in knee osteoarthritis: systematic review
and network meta-analysis

350
Comparative effectiveness of pharmacologic interventions for knee osteoarthritis
a systematic review and network meta-analysis

351
A Bayesian network meta-analysis comparing concurrent chemoradiotherapy followed
by adjuvant chemotherapy, concurrent chemoradiotherapy alone and radiotherap
alone in patients with locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma

352
[Meta analysis of the use of Bayesian networks in breast cancer diagnosis]

353

354
Gastrointestinal adverse events of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists i
patients with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and network meta-analysis

355
Safety and efficacy of non-vitamin K oral anticoagulants in non-valvular atria
fibrillation: a Bayesian meta-analysis approach

356
First-line treatment in the management of advanced renal cell carcinoma
systematic review and network meta-analysis

357
Economic resources consumption structure in severe hypoglycemia episodes: 
systematic review and meta-analysis

358
Comparative efficacy of pharmacologic interventions in preventing relapse o
Crohn's disease after surgery: a systematic review and network meta-analysis

359
Effects of using different criteria for caries removal: a systematic review an
network meta-analysis

360
Spatial and temporal distribution of soil-transmitted helminth infection i
sub-Saharan Africa: a systematic review and geostatistical meta-analysis

361
A network meta-analysis on comparative efficacy and all-cause discontinuation of
antimanic treatments in acute bipolar mania

362
Network meta-analysis: development of a three-level hierarchical modelin
approach incorporating dose-related constraints

